---
layout: single
title: "Research"
permalink: /research
toc: true
author_profile: true
---

<p align="center"><strong>Equatorial Boundary Layer Winds</strong></p>

As part of my PhD research, I am studying the dynamics of surface winds over equatorial ocean basins. The factors contributing to the formation and persistence of surface winds are as varied as they are complex. By employing a momentum analysis, I uncover the driving forces that maintain these winds. This approach provides me with insights into the essential components of the "wind recipe". I am not doing this just for one specific ocean; rather, I am considering all equatorial ocean basins, each subject to fundamentally different dynamics. We learn that the pressure gradient force is crucial for surface winds. Other significant drivers are surface friction, horizontal advection, and vertical momentum transport, which interact in a balanced manner.

At the equator over the ocean, there is another intriguing phenomenon triggered by the east-west winds, known as "equatorial upwelling". The cause of this equatorial upwelling is rooted in the Coriolis force, which has different signs in the northern and southern hemispheres. Equatorial upwelling is characterized by the uplift of cold water masses from the ocean depths to the surface, where they interact with the overlying warm atmosphere. This leads to substantial temperature differences, generating pressure gradients that, in turn, drive winds.

We now understand that surface pressure gradients are key for surface winds. However, what determines surface pressure gradients ? As early as the late 1980s, scientists successfully tackled this question (see [Lindzen&Nigam, 1987](https://journals.ametsoc.org/view/journals/atsc/44/17/1520-0469_1987_044_2418_otross_2_0_co_2.xml)) and linked surface pressure to sea surface temperature. The transition from surface pressure to surface wind, however, is considerably more difficult, and the lack of resolving the small scale processes has so far prevented us from shedding complete light on that matter.

Here at the Max Planck Institute in Hamburg, in collaboration with numerous partners such as the [Deutschen Klimarechenzentrum](https://www.dkrz.de/de/dkrz-partner-der-klimaforschung), we are developing a high-resolution climate model called "ICON" (see [NextGEMS](https://nextgems-h2020.eu/)). This is precisely what we need: a high-resolution, atmosphere-ocean coupled climate model.

With the output generated by ICON, I am directing my focus toward equatorial surface winds, striving to contribute to the understanding of atmosphere-ocean interaction.

**Supervisors:** [Prof. Dr. Bjorn Stevens](https://mpimet.mpg.de/institut/mitarbeiterinnen/mitarbeiterdetail?tx_mitarbeiterverwaltung_mitarbeiterliste%5Baction%5D=show&tx_mitarbeiterverwaltung_mitarbeiterliste%5Bcontroller%5D=Mitarbeiter&tx_mitarbeiterverwaltung_mitarbeiterliste%5Bmitarbeiter%5D=11&cHash=6b76dcfaee5961642aba4f38def0c875) (MPI-M), [Prof. Dr. Juan Pedro Mellado González](https://jpmellado.github.io/) (UHH)
**Keywords:** Atmospheric Physics, Momentum Analysis, Air-Sea Interaction, Surface Winds, Equatorial Cold Tongue
